<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
<title>KDE User's Manual</title>
<author>&Lauri.Watts; &Lauri.Watts.mail;</author>
<date>2010-09-18</date>
<productname>K Desktop Environment</productname>
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>kdesu</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>kdesu</command></refname>
<refpurpose>Runs a program with elevated privileges</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kdesu</command>

<group choice="opt"><option>-c</option> <replaceable> command</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-d</option></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-f</option> <replaceable> file</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-i</option> <replaceable> icon name</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-n</option></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-p</option> <replaceable> priority</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-r</option></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-s</option></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-t</option></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>-u</option> <replaceable> user</replaceable></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>--noignorebutton</option></group>
<group choice="opt"><option>--attach</option> <replaceable> winid</replaceable></group>
<!--group choice="opt"><option>- -nonewdcop</option></group>

<group><arg choice="req"><replaceable>command</replaceable> <arg><replaceable>arg1</replaceable></arg>
	  <arg><replaceable>arg2</replaceable></arg>
          <arg rep="repeat"><replaceable></replaceable></arg></arg></group-->
</cmdsynopsis>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kdesu</command>
<arg choice="opt">&kde; Generic Options</arg>
<arg choice="opt">&Qt; Generic Options</arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>
<para>&kdesu; is a graphical front end for the
&UNIX; <command>su</command> command for the K Desktop Environment.
It allows you to run a program as different user by supplying the
password for that user. &kdesu; is an unprivileged program; it uses
the system's <command>su</command>.</para>

<para>&kdesu; has one additional feature: it can optionally remember passwords
for you. If you are using this feature, you only need to enter the
password once for each command.</para>

<para>This program is meant to be started from the command line or
from <filename>.desktop</filename> files.</para>

<para>Since <command>kdesu</command> is no longer installed in <userinput>
$(kf5-config --prefix)</userinput>/bin but in <userinput>kf5-config --path libexec</userinput>
and therefore not in your <envar>Path</envar>, you have to use <userinput>$(kf5-config
--path libexec)<command>kdesu</command></userinput> to launch <command>kdesu</command>.</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-c <replaceable>command</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>This specifies the command to run as root. It has to be passed
in one argument. So if, for example, you want to start a new file manager, you
would enter at the prompt: <userinput>$(kf5-config --path libexec)<command>kdesu <option>-c <replaceable>
&dolphin;</replaceable></option></command></userinput></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-d</option></term>
<listitem><para>Show debug information.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-f <replaceable>file</replaceable></option></term>
<listitem><para>This option allow efficient use of &kdesu; in
<filename>.desktop</filename> files. It tells &kdesu; to examine the
file specified by <parameter>file</parameter>. If this file is
writable by the current user, &kdesu; will execute the command as the
current user. If it is not writable, the command is executed as user
<parameter>user</parameter> (defaults to root).</para>
<para><parameter>file</parameter> is evaluated like this: if
<parameter>file</parameter> starts with a <literal>/</literal>, it is
taken as an absolute filename. Otherwise, it is taken as the name of a
global &kde; configuration file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-i</option> <replaceable>icon name</replaceable></term>
<listitem><para>Specify icon to use in the password dialog. You may specify
just the name, without any extension.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-n</option></term>
<listitem><para>Do not keep the password. This disables the <guilabel>keep
password</guilabel> checkbox in the password dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-p</option> <replaceable>priority</replaceable></term>
<listitem>
<para>Set priority value. The priority is an arbitrary number between 0 and
100, where 100 means highest priority, and 0 means lowest. The default is
50.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-r</option></term>
<listitem><para>Use realtime scheduling.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s</option></term>
<listitem><para>Stop the kdesu daemon. This is the daemon that caches
successful passwords in the background. This feature may also be disabled with
<option>-n</option> when &kdesu; is initially run.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-t</option></term>
<listitem><para>Enable terminal output. This disables password keeping. This is
largely for debugging purposes; if you want to run a console mode app, use the
standard <command>su</command> instead.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>-u</option> <replaceable> user</replaceable></term>
<listitem><para>While the most common use for &kdesu; is to run a command as
the superuser, you can supply any user name and the appropriate
password.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--noignorebutton</option></term>
<listitem><para>Do not display an ignore button.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>--attach</option> <replaceable> winid</replaceable></term>
<listitem><para>Makes the dialog transient for an X app specified by winid.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>
<para>su(1)</para>

<para>More detailed user documentation is available from <ulink
url="help:/kdesu">help:/kdesu</ulink>
(either enter this &URL; into &konqueror;, or run
<userinput><command>khelpcenter</command>
<parameter>help:/kdesu</parameter></userinput>).</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Examples</title>
<para>Run <command>kfmclient</command> as user <systemitem
class="username">jim</systemitem>, and show the &konqueror; icon in the
password dialog:</para>
<screen><userinput>$(kf5-config --path libexec)<command>kdesu</command> <option>-u jim</option> <option>-i konqueror</option> <command>kfmclient</command></userinput></screen>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Authors</title>
<para>&kdesu; was written by
&Geert.Jansen; &Geert.Jansen.mail;
and <personname><firstname>Pietro</firstname><surname>Iglio</surname></personname>
<email>iglio@fub.it</email>.
</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
